WIP: Comparison to alternatives (#145)
meilisearch/documentation: guides/getting_started/comparison_to_alternatives.md

### MeiliSearch vs. Typesense

MeiliSearch and Typesense target a set of use cases involving small-medium datasets. We could say their primary focus is on offering a super fast and relevant search for end-user.  
Both of them use a reverse index with a Levenshtein automaton in order to handle typos. But, contrary to Typesense, MeiliSearch also uses a bucket sort which means that a default relevancy algorithm based on the proximity of words in the documents, the fields in which the words are found, and the number of typos is executed.  
On the other hand, MeiliSearch is written in Rust, which combines performance, security, and is part of a modern ecosystem that will allow easier maintenance.  

### MeiliSearch vs. Algolia

MeiliSearch was inspired by Algolia’s product and the algorithms behind it. We indeed studied most of the algorithms and data structures described in their blog posts in order to implement our own. MeiliSearch is thus a new search engine based on the work of Algolia and recent research papers.  

> It provides similar features and reaches the same level of relevance just as quickly as its predecessor. Icing on the cake, MeiliSearch is open source!  

Reviewer: ```suggestion
It provides similar features and reaches the same level of relevance just as quickly as its predecessor.
```

> The fact that MeiliSearch is written in Rust, a systems-level and modern programming language, allows to rapidly build features; which is not especially the case in other low-level languages such as C++ or C. Rust also enables portability and flexibility, which makes the deployment of our search engines inside Virtual Machines, containers, or even Lambda@Edge, a seamless operation.  

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Contrary to Algolia, meiliSearch is open source and written in Rust, a systems-level and modern programming language, allows to rapidly build features. Rust also enables portability and flexibility, which makes the deployment of our search engines inside Virtual Machines, containers, or even Lambda@Edge, a seamless operation.  
```

Apart from Algolia, a wide range of SaaS products exist on the Search Engine Market. Most of them use Elasticsearch, and fine tune its settings in order to have a custom and personalized solution.  

#### Swiftype

Swiftype is a search service provider specialized in website search and analytics. Swiftype was founded in 2012 by Matt Riley and Quin Hoxie, and is now owned by Elastic since November 2017. It is a end-to-end solution built on top of Elasticsearch, meaning it has the ability to leverage the Elastic Stack.  

#### Doofinder

Doofinder is a paid on-site search service which was developed to integrate to any website with very little configuration. Doofinder is used by online stores to increase their sales, aiming to facilitate the purchase process.  

## Conclusions

MeiliSearch offers the same features as Algolia but is intended to be a more simplified alternative. In addition, providing an open source code allows to unleash a large number of opportunities for monetization: SaaS, support services, enterprise-features, and so on.  

> Today, Algolia is no longer perceived as a dev tool, a developer friendly tool, since Algolia's marketing strategy is now mainly focused on large businesses; especially on e-commerce market where instant search is proving effective in bringing a strong added value. Since MeiliSearch is open source, it will be integrated in relatively smaller projects and will be managed by the development team rather than the marketing team or the product team. MeiliSearch will continue growing driven by its projects! Our ambition for MeiliSearch is to become the reference technology in the search engine market.  

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Today, Algolia is no longer perceived as a developer friendly tool, since Algolia's marketing strategy is now mainly focused on large businesses; especially on e-commerce market where instant search is proving effective in bringing a strong added value. Since MeiliSearch is open source, it will be integrated in relatively smaller projects and will be managed by the development team rather than the marketing team or the product team. MeiliSearch will continue growing driven by its projects! Our ambition for MeiliSearch is to become the reference technology in the search engine market.  
```

The present article covers a comparison of alternatives to MeiliSearch, i.e. available search technologies to be considered when planning to implement a search bar.  

## Comparisons

### MeiliSearch vs. Elasticsearch

Elasticsearch has been designed as a backend search engine and, although it is not at first suited for this purpose, is commonly used to build search bars for the end users.  
Unlike Elasticsearch which is a general search engine, MeiliSearch focuses on delivering a specific kind of features.  

Elasticsearch can handle search through massive amounts of data and perform text analysis. In order to make it effective for end-user searching, you need to spend time understanding more about how Elasticsearch works internally to be able to customize and tailor it to fit your needs.  

> MeiliSearch is intended to deliver performant instant search experiences aimed at end-users. However, processing complex queries or analyzing large datasets (over 100 M documents) is not possible.  

Reviewer: `Not possible` or a `significantly loss of speed`?

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
MeiliSearch is intended to deliver performant instant search experiences aimed at end-users. However, processing complex queries or analyzing very large datasets is not possible. 
```
